---
layout: post
title: A gentle introduction
author: Ricardo Kleinlein
---

The idea of building up a blog came to me a year ago. I struggled quite a lot understanding how to set up (and more important, how to publish it online!) a website. Bear in mind I have little formation on Computer Science, and I had never tried either HTML or any other web programming language before. Back then, I managed to fork an available open-source template I liked and saw to be easy to tune, and I could run with it. Nonetheless it was about time to make my own personal site.

By the time I say this, I am writing again all the posts I have written so far. I was not completely satisfied with the final result, plus there were tons of mistakes, let alone the number of errata I found.

The main topics I plan to cover range among:

1. **Artificial Intelligence** -- That's what I work on, and truth be told, I can barely think of any other field growing at a similar pace. There's not a single day without a piece of news regarding it.
2. **Artificial Neural Networks** -- Yes, they are but a family of algorithms within the more general AI paradigm. Nonetheless, ANNs are likely to be the most used strategies in the industry when some degree of pattern recognition is required.
3. **Real-life applications of a wider range of algorithms** -- Because sometimes the desire to explore the latest techniques makes you blind to many other useful approaches to the same problem.

I'll try my best to demystify these concepts, which still sound like sci-fi terms to most people. Thus, I want to be as clear and explanatory as I can, and I apologise in advance if at any point you feel like I have not met your expectations. 

Last but not least, I would love to hear from you. In order to do so, I have enabled a comments section in the bottom of every post page. In case you think I am missing something, have further doubts about the topic or you just liked it, please leave a comment. I hope you enjoy these readings as much as I do preparing them.